an Israeli official says that prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu has
dissolved Israel's war cabinet that's
after Minister Benny guns and his
National Unity party quit the government
on June 9th the move comes as Israel
continues its military operations in the
Gaza Strip Israel's Army has said it
would Implement a daily tactical pause
as it calls it along a road in southern
Gaza to allow a deliveries through the
key Kim Shalom border crossing
the United Nations has welcomed the
announcement but said more needs to be
done children are among those with the
greatest needs the World Health
Organization said over 8,000 children
under five have been diagnosed and
treated for acute malnutrition 1,600 of
them are classified as severe as well as
not having enough food eight agencies
say children lack access to sufficient
health care and are living in a constant
state of
fear James Elder is a global
spokesperson for Unicef he joins us now
from Rafa in southern Gaza James so good
to see you thank you so much for making
the time you were last in Rafa back in
March how has the situation changed
since then especially for
children look it's gotten so much worse
no one should be surprised by that since
March those same children have had two
three more months of Relentless
bombardments every night as before as we
were getting this sorted out there are
bombardments here now last night the
night before if it's not bombardments
it's drones either attack drones or
drones that are like a lawn mower in
your head this continues to go on I the
great fear is that it's being normalized
there is nothing normal about children
being deprived food there's nothing
normal about thousands of children being
bombed there's certainly nothing normal
about the constant fear that people live
in so people now are physically and
psychologically shattered they were in
March somehow they've held on but they
are literally now just holding on with a
die lack of water with nutrition
consistent denials of Aid and ongoing
indiscriminate indiscriminate attacks
I've just come back from a hospital
again seeing children with limbs missing
with eye with with with uh being made
blind in the last few days while
sleeping in their home it's 250 days
that's how things are compared to March
and thousands of children are also
suffering from acute malnutrition now
that's according to the wh now do you
believe these 11-hour tactical pauses
that the Israeli military has announced
will do much to remedy the
situation any pause in bombing is good
news for children they haven't seen it
they haven't heard it it's hard to
explain what it's like must be like for
a child for this Relentless bombardment
and as a mother said to me in March
where they thought they were going to
get a ceasefire tonight is a night I can
promise my child she will wake up
tomorrow morning that ceasefire of
course didn't happen that that hope was
bombed away so any pause is good there
is a lot more to be seen with what what
this means it's it's one Crossing it's
about getting some Aid in we need to get
more Aid in yes but then we need to get
that Aid safely across the Gaza Strip
that is the responsibility of the
occupying power it is a very difficult
it is very dangerous place um to give
Aid so we have to see it there is a lot
of lot yet to be seen right now there is
uh you know we need to see evidence on
the ground not more statements we need
to see evidence as to whether this will
mean smoother faster safer delivery of
Aid the the clearest way to do that
would not just be with a pause or a
strategic strategic pause would be with
more Crossings opening in fact we've
seen them close Rafa Rafer in the south
is the humanitarian Lifeline for
humanitarian agencies for Aid coming in
we've seen half as many trucks in May as
April half as many at a time where the
need is skyrocketing and we've seen half
as many because May of course was the
offensive and raer the so-called quote
unquote limited offensive The Limited
offensive that led to a million more
people being displaced so we need more
Crossings uh and we need a much safer
environment so it's a step but it's a
very baby step and it's only been around
for a day I'm not exactly sure on the
space but there's been bombarding the
last couple of hours nearby where I am
at least in Rafa yeah the fact that the
situation on the ground is growing
increasingly desperate what does it mean
for unicef's ability to carry out its
task look this is a really difficult
place to operate uh we've seen more
United Nations colleagues killed here
than in any War since World War II and
this is eight months on now but this is
what my colleagues do they're Frontline
responders whether it's UNICEF whether
it's unra the backbone of an aid
operation wh wfp these are Frontline
workers whether we're in Afghanistan
Syria Yemen Ukraine this is what people
do but it's very difficult I was on a
convoy on Wednesday to go to the north
with a truck of medical and nutritional
supplies for 10,000 children critical
life-saving supplies it was about a 25
mile 40 kilometer Journey it took 13
hours with all the paperwork it took 13
hours and in the end that truck was
denied based on that it was meant to be
a van not a closed truck after all the
inspections it was denied those 10,000
children did not get that Aid now we
will return we will go again but it's
not as simple as going the next day
because given how dangerous this
operating environment is we need armed
vehicles for every Convoy so that's
10,000 children we've got a very wide
mandate UNICEF it's water it's
sanitation it's tents because so many
families have lost their home we won't
stop but we need we need Israel to
facilitate enable us to do our work for
those civilians who are who are again
just holding on you say that people live
in constant fear understandably so what
psychological impact are you seeing on
children and their
parents oh we're in Uncharted Territory
um there is no doubt there is every
single child in the Gaza Strip needs
some sort of mental health care I don't
really know of an example everyone no
one wants to leave their home but if
your home gets destroyed and 2third of
houses and buildings here have been
damaged or destroyed I've never seen
this Devastation it's post-apocalyptic
2/3 if your home gets bombed of course
you just want to leave you want to get
as far away from the constant threat of
missiles and bombs as you can you cannot
here children cannot Escape that here so
the sound constant sound of drones and
bombs and of course the deprivation and
if for a child to look into their
parents' eyes and now to know that your
mom or dad cannot protect you is a
terrifying thing I've had more than a
handful of young people this past week
say to me I have nothing left I hope a
missile hits my tent I'm done that's the
mental health of Children Here of a very
young generation who you know with
opportunities and and education and a
and a labor market you know it's a young
population is the Envy of of Aging
countries but not with the conditions
these children forced to live through
this is UNICEF spokesperson James Elder
in Rafa James thank you so much for your
time and please try to be
safe thanks Ni
Call and for the latest I am now joined
by DW correspondent Rebecca ritters she
joins us from Jerusalem Rebecca Centrist
Benny Gant left the war cabinet last
week and now Netanyahu has dissolved
completely why is
that well this hasn't come as a surprise
Nicole it was largely expected after
guns uh and G Eisen cot did stand down
from the war cabinet now the war cabinet
was made uh around about October 11th
last year just after the breakout of the
War uh at the behest of Benny guns who
said that he would come on board to
provide a more unified force a Unity
government as it is known here to try to
guide the to guide Israel through this
complex time H now since they've stood
down the prime minister's office now
says that it is no longer needed this
War cabinet but it's largely thought
that's because far right Minister itamar
Ben the national security minister was
pushing to be allowed into that war
cabinet and that's something that uh
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu
clearly wasn't in favor of and certainly
wouldn't have pleased Israel's Ally the
United States so instead he's decided to
dissolve the cabinet completely instead
now decisions will go to a wider
security cabinet on which itar benier
and the Finance Minister betel smotrich
both heading tionalist parties in the
Coalition they are both on that security
uh in that security cabinet and will be
overseeing some of the decisions being
made although it is thought that there
will also be smaller consultative groups
uh made up in an ad hoc fashion and they
may contain you know various members
that Benjamin Netanyahu picks at the
time for particular decisions but it is
being said or it's thought in some
circles that this situation may actually
favor Benjamin nety who is looking for
ways
not to end this war even though there's
a lot of international pressure to do so
and by by allowing or by in fact having
to have these decisions go to a wider
security cabinet that do include these
hawkish members uh they they have
already said that they do not want to
see an end of the war uh until all the
military aims have been met uh so that
could work in Benjamin netanyahu's favor
yeah Rebecca this is not the only
political headache for Netanyahu it
seems Israel's military and its
government don't really see eye to eye
on the issue of those so-called tactical
pauses that were announced over the
weekend what more can you tell
us yeah that's right these were
announced yesterday pretty early in the
morning by the Israeli military that
there would be these 11-hour tactical
pauses on a particular humanitarian
route that has been
demarcated uh now shortly after that
announcement these farri right ministers
namely betel betel smotrich and itar Ben
both came out against them and then we
heard from the prime minister's office
or or at least it was reported to have
come from the prime minister's office
that Benjamin Netanyahu was also upset
by this news showing a kind of a rift
between the military and what Benjamin
Netanyahu is planning for them to do so
it's not the first time we've seen uh
difference in opinion and difference in
issues there we'll have to see uh what
comes of these pauses and whether
they'll continue given that Rift tww
correspondent Rebecca ritters from
Jerusalem thank
you for